Midterm 1 preparation

commands are enclosed in []: example: [ls], [strace]

Q. What is an OS?
A. An OS is a software that acts as interface between computer Hardware components
and the user

Q. What are some functions of an OS?
A. Memory Management, Processor Management, File Management, Device Management, I/O Management,
Secondary storage Management, security, command interpretation, networking, communication management,
job accounting

Q. What is the kernel?
A. The one program running at all times on the computer.
  The kernel is at the nucleus of a computer.
  It is reponsible for managing the commuincation between software and hardware.
  the Kernel is the innermost part of an OS, while the shell is the outermost one.

Q. what is a Shell?
A. Shell is a program that serves as the interface between the user and the OS.
   the shell translates commands you type into a format which the computer can understand.
   it is essentially a command line interpreter or a graphical user interface (gui)
    eg: bourne shell (sh), c shell (csh), bourne again shell (bash), korn sell(ksh)

Q. WHat are the two parts of memory?
A. 1. user space: applications execute here 
    2. protected kernel space: device, task, process management etc

Evolution of OS:
Windows NT kernel -> windows 200 -> windows xp - windows 10
UNIX kernel -> BSD Kernel -> XNU Kernel -> DarwinOS -> OS X/ MAC OS
            -> Linux Kernel -> Debian OS -> Ubuntu OS

Q. What is a system call?
A. System calls are programming interfaces to the services provided by the OS   
   a system call is a request made by a program to the OS's kernel to perform a task
   typically written as a function in c or c++
Example: copying contents of one file to another:
        - open 
        - create 
        - Read
        - write 
        - close

Q.What is a context switch?
A. A context switch the process of saving the state of one process (or thread) and
restoring the state of another. so the CPU can swtich between them. 

Q. Why does programming using system calls not the best practice?
A. a system call is a direct request from a program to the OS's kernel. A program must 
use a special instruction that causes a context switch from the less-privileged user Mode 
to the more-privileged kernel mode. This is a low-level, machine-specific process that
requires careful handling of registers and memory. if this process had to be handled
manually, it would be extremely difficult to program software. THis is why APIs exist.

Q. What is an API?
A. API stands for Application Programming Interface. The API specifies a set of functions
that are available to an application programmer, inlcuding parameters that are passed to 
each function and the return values the programmer can expect.
Example: Win32 API for Windows
          POSIX API for POSIX-based systems
          Java API for the Java Virtual Machine (JVM)
A programmer access an API via a library of code provided by the OS. For UNIX and Linux,
for programs written in C, the library is called "libc"

APIs have system calls under the hood, 
example: the fopen() API call has:
- open()
- fstat()
- Iseek()
- read()

[strace]: is a diagnostic, debugging, and instructional command-line utility for Linux
that traces system calls.

Q. Why API over System Call?
A. portability, EAse of use, RTE (Run time environment)
